.TH GREETME 1 "October 2025" "greetme 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
greetme \- a fast, themeable terminal greeting application
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B greetme
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B greetme
is a terminal greeting application that displays customizable ASCII art text with colorful themes. It supports multiple themes, fonts, and follows XDG Base Directory specification for configuration.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-text " \fITEXT\fR"
Display the specified text as a themed greeting and optionally store it.
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-read
Read and display the stored greeting from configuration.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-create\-config
Create default configuration directory with themes and fonts.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-set\-theme " \fITHEME\fR"
Set the active theme. Theme must exist in the themes directory.
.TP
.BR \-\-list\-themes
List all available themes and indicate which one is active.
.TP
.BR \-\-font " \fIFONT\fR"
Use the specified font for rendering (standard, small, big, banner, block).
.TP
.BR \-\-size " \fISIZE\fR"
Set font size multiplier. Range: 0.1 to 10.0. Default: 1.0. Values above 1.0 make text larger, below 1.0 make it smaller.
.TP
.BR \-\-save
Save the current text, theme, font, and size as defaults in the configuration.
.TP
.BR \-\-preview\-theme " \fITHEME\fR"
Display a preview of the specified theme.
.TP
.BR \-\-force
Force output even if stdout is not a terminal.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Enable verbose output for debugging.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help information.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Display version information.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Configuration is stored in
.I ~/.config/greetme/config.toml
(or
.IR $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/greetme/config.toml ).
The configuration file is in TOML format and contains:
.TP
.B version
Configuration file version
.TP
.B default_text
Default greeting text
.TP
.B default_theme
Active theme name
.TP
.B default_font
Active font name
.TP
.B font_size
Font size multiplier (1.0 = normal, 2.0 = double size)
.TP
.B last_shown
Last displayed greeting
.TP
.B last_updated
Timestamp of last configuration update
.SH THEMES
Themes are stored in
.I ~/.config/greetme/themes/
as TOML files. Each theme defines colors and styling options.
.PP
Built-in themes: onedark, solarized, dracula, gruvbox, monokai, catppuccin-latte, catppuccin-frappe, catppuccin-macchiato, catppuccin-mocha
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/greetme/config.toml
Main configuration file
.TP
.I ~/.config/greetme/themes/
Theme files directory
.TP
.I ~/.config/greetme/fonts/
Font files directory
.TP
.I /usr/share/greetme/
System-wide default themes and fonts
.SH EXAMPLES
Create default configuration:
.PP
.nf
.RS
greetme \-c
.RE
.fi
.PP
Display a greeting:
.PP
.nf
.RS
greetme \-t "Welcome back!"
.RE
.fi
.PP
Set a theme and save with custom size:
.PP
.nf
.RS
greetme \-\-set\-theme catppuccin-mocha
greetme \-t "Hello" \-\-size 2.0 \-\-save
.RE
.fi
.PP
Read stored greeting:
.PP
.nf
.RS
greetme \-r
.RE
.fi
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B non-zero
Error occurred (missing config, unknown theme, write failure, etc.)
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B XDG_CONFIG_HOME
Base directory for user configuration (defaults to ~/.config)
.SH AUTHOR
Written by greetme contributors.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/techytim-tech/greetme/issues
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2025 greetme contributors.
License MIT: <https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT>
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR figlet (6),
.BR toilet (1)
